Add example helper port (#295)
microsoft/vcpkg-docs: vcpkg/maintainers/authoring-script-ports.md

---
title: Authoring script ports
description: Learn to create a script port to reuse functions in multiple vcpkg portfiles.

> author: viromer
> ms.author: vicroms

Author: ```suggestion
author: vicroms
ms.author: viromer
```

`share/${PORT}` subdirectory in the [installation
tree](../reference/installation-tree-layout.md). 

## Example: Write a simple helper port

1 - Create a CMake file that defines the helper function.

`my-helper/my_helper_function.cmake`

```cmake
include_guard(GLOBAL)

function(my_helper_function)
  message(STATUS "my_helper_function() was called")
  my_other_helper_function()
endfunction()
```

The `include_guard(GLOBAL)` at the top of the file protect against redefining
this function when the file is included multiple times.

The following lines declare a function named `my_helper_function` that displays
a message and calls the `my_other_helper_function` that is defined in a
different helper port. 

2 - Create the helper port's `porftile.cmake` file

`my-helper/portfile.cmake`

```cmake
set(VCPKG_POLICY_HELPER_PORT enabled)

file(INSTALL
  "${CMAKE_CURRENT_LIST_DIR}/vcpkg-port-config.cmake"
  DESTINATION "${CURRENT_PACKAGES_DIR}/share/${PORT}")

file(INSTALL "${VCPKG_ROOT_DIR}/LICENSE.txt" DESTINATION "${CURRENT_PACKAGES_DIR}/share/${PORT}" RENAME copyright)
```

By enabling the `VCPKG_POLICY_HELPER_PORT` policy, vcpkg disables post-build checks

> that warn when a port does not produce any binary output.

Reviewer: Header only ports also don't produce any binary output.

> By enabling the `VCPKG_POLICY_HELPER_PORT` policy, vcpkg disables post-build checks
> that warn when a port does not produce any binary output.

Author: ```suggestion
By enabling the `VCPKG_POLICY_HELPER_PORT` policy, vcpkg enables post-build checks
that apply specifically to helper ports (i.e.: ensure that `vcpkg-port-config.cmake` is installed
in the correct path and disallow installation of files in the `include` directory).
```
